Hi everybody and welcome back in this lecture we're going to be talking about how to write to a file
and specifically how to write to an empty file.
Now obviously one of the simplest ways to save data is to write to a file.
This way whatever information you save to a file is available even after your program closes.
So to write an empty file we need to first call open like we did previously.
For the second argument telling Python that we want to write to the file.
So let's take a look now at a simple example where we start off with a file name variable filename equals.
Well I'm just going to give it a name now.
So programming that T x t.
So that's what our file is going to be called.
We're open to put in a file name ferryboat come up w.
So you can probably guess what W stands for as File object underscore object call it so file object.
Rice let's give it something simple to write to a file.
Hello my name is Tony or whatever your name is.
Now let's run and say let's say even run us and as you can see down the bottom left nothing outputted
but a file did run.
And if you noticed on the left hand side of my file listing here a new file popped in called programming
that XTi and I click on that.
Here we have our insert message.
Hello my name is Tony saved to a file.
So in this example I called Open has two arguments.
The first argument is still the name of the file.
We want to open the second argument w tells pide that we want to open a file in write mode.
If I leave out this Ogwyn Python opens the file in read only mode by default you can open a file in
read mode or write mode W or append mode a or in a mode that allows you to read and write to a file
or plus the open function automatically creates the file you're writing to it.
If it doesn't exist.
However if it does exist and you open the file in right w mode will erase the file before returning
the file object.
This line here.
Line 8.
We use the write method on the file object to write a string to the file.
Now it's worth noting at this point the pipe and can only write strings with text file if you want to
store numbers in a text file.
You have to convert them to a string format using the string bracket function.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.